docs/README.md, before:

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Apache Liminal

Apache Liminal is an end-to-end platform for data engineers & scientists, allowing them to build,
train and deploy machine learning models in a robust and agile way.

The platform provides the abstractions and declarative capabilities for
data extraction & feature engineering followed by model training and serving.
Liminal's goal is to operationalize the machine learning process, allowing data scientists to
quickly transition from a successful experiment to an automated pipeline of model training,
validation, deployment and inference in production, freeing them from engineering and
non-functional tasks, and allowing them to focus on machine learning code and artifacts.

## Basics

Using simple YAML configuration, create your own schedule data pipelines (a sequence of tasks to
perform), application servers,  and more.

## Getting Started
A simple getting stated guide for Liminal can be found [here](getting_started.md)

## Apache Liminal Documentation
Full documentation of Apache Liminal can be found [here](liminal)

## High Level Architecture
High level architecture documentation can be found [here](architecture.md)

Commit message:

iris getting started (#57)
* iris getting started

* update readme

* rewrite desc

* fix link

* cleanup desc

* redefine desc

* redefine desc

* redefine funcs

* adding manifest

* move manifest

* update manifests

docs/README.md, after:

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Apache Liminal

Apache Liminal is an end-to-end platform for data engineers & scientists, allowing them to build,
train and deploy machine learning models in a robust and agile way.

The platform provides the abstractions and declarative capabilities for
data extraction & feature engineering followed by model training and serving.
Liminal's goal is to operationalize the machine learning process, allowing data scientists to
quickly transition from a successful experiment to an automated pipeline of model training,
validation, deployment and inference in production, freeing them from engineering and
non-functional tasks, and allowing them to focus on machine learning code and artifacts.

## Basics

Using simple YAML configuration, create your own schedule data pipelines (a sequence of tasks to
perform), application servers,  and more.

## Getting Started
A simple hello world guide for Liminal can be found [here](getting-started/hello_world.md) \
A more advanced example which demonstrates a simple data-science workflow can be found [here](getting-started/iris_classification.md

## Apache Liminal Documentation
Full documentation of Apache Liminal can be found [here](liminal)

## High Level Architecture
High level architecture documentation can be found [here](architecture.md)
